Max was going away for the long weekend. And I, after all the confusion with the bag, the coughing and my need to leave before they could throw me out, had missed the chance to stay a few more days with him. It annoyed me a little. Not because anything had happened, but because I was left with that feeling of "maybe we could have made more of the moment".

I asked him what he'd be doing over the long weekend. He told me his plan: friends, vans, climbing, kitesurfing… A hell of a plan. And, at the end, he asked me:

"Did you want to suggest a plan?"

I didn't answer him.

But yes, obviously I wanted to suggest a plan.

Over those days we kept talking. Max didn't reply very quickly, but he was steady. And that was starting to calm me down. He sent me photos of what he was doing, I sent him mine, and I couldn't help thinking about how much I liked that way of living.

I could see myself doing those things.

And that surprised me.

It wasn't just that I liked Max. It was that I was starting to really like the life I sensed behind him. That way of having plans, of moving around, of grabbing a van, heading off with friends and filling a weekend with things. And I compared it with my previous life and thought that maybe I wanted that too. Maybe I'd got too used to one particular way of living and now I was discovering there were many more.

On Saturday, though, I had a small existential crisis.

I had no plans.

And I found myself far too glued to my phone.

I checked whether he'd written, I wondered what he might be doing, when he'd reply… and I realised that didn't make much sense either. I couldn't expect a man I'd seen twice to solve for me the calm that I myself didn't know how to find.

But I didn't want to act as if I didn't care either.

So I thought of Bruna.

Rule number two of an empowered woman: before you write a guy something you'll probably regret having written, write to your friend.

I asked her for help.

She, who has a lot more sense than me about these things, told me to do things. To fill the day. To stop thinking.

And I did.

The next day I ended up having an almost improvised, perfect day. I went out on my bike in the morning, then out on a boat, I went fishing, something I'd never done in my life, I carried on painting my room and at night I met up with Alex for dinner.

And I had a really good time.

I was painting my room at my parents' house and, somehow, I also felt I was painting my life a little bit anew. Changing the space, making it mine, moving things around. I felt renewed.

And that day I ignored my phone.

Not Max.

My phone.

Without really setting out to, I discovered that it was much easier to stop thinking about whether someone was writing to me when I was busy living.

Max had come back from the long weekend and he wrote to me. He said good morning, he asked me about the painting and I sent him a photo or two.

And I carried on with my day.

In the evening he wrote again to ask me how the painting had gone.

Later, when I'd already got home, he wrote to me again.

And I smiled.

Not because I'd pulled off some perfect strategy. I'd simply left space. And in that space he had appeared too.

Maybe that was what I had to learn: that being interested in someone didn't mean having to be stuck to him. That I could leave him space to miss me, to wonder what I was doing, to want to hear from me.

And above all, that I needed that space too.

That night I had dinner with Alex. I hadn't seen her for a couple of weeks and she told me she'd got back together with Miqui. They'd always had their comings and goings, and I, who for a long time had thought that second chances didn't work, started to see that maybe things weren't so simple.

I didn't know whether it would work for them.

But it didn't have to work for me.

It was her life.

And I was very happy for her.

When I left the dinner, I got into the car and sent Max a voice note. I told him a bit about my weekend, the things I'd done, the funny stories… and yes, I admit I got a little flirty.

I'd liked that he'd come looking for me.

So I told him:

"Don't apologise so much for not answering me and suggest plans more often."

It seemed to me a fairly elegant way of telling him: I like you, but you make a move too.

Because I'd already done my part.

I'd already decided that I liked him.

And now I wanted to see what he would do.

We talked for a while about the weekend, about our things, about the funny stories… until he said to me:

"Tomorrow I'll suggest a plan."

And I was left waiting.

Meanwhile, I carried on with my life and with painting my room. And to reach the top part of the walls I needed a long pole for the roller.

And I knew perfectly well where there was one.

At Marcos's place.

So I wrote to him.

"I've got that pole here, over there."

I don't know which amused me more: getting the pole back after six months or imagining Marcos's face reading that message.

Because, being as predictable a person as he is, I was almost certain he hadn't moved a single thing out of place.

I just wanted to see if he'd answer me and tell me exactly where it was.

After six months.

A pole.

That's how, sometimes, the past shows up again.

Not with a momentous conversation.

With a pole for painting a wall.

And while I waited to find out where the pole was, I could only think about one thing:

what would Max suggest the next day?
